https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/standard/components
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/standard/glossary


CLI common language infrastructure specification
the standardized set of things all .NET implementations have.
    VES virtual execution system, aka the runtime.
        the execution environment for a .NET application
    Standard Libraries
        includes:
        BCL base class library
            common data types for numbers, strings, etc.
            exceptions, attributes, collections, delegates, I/O, threads
        also reflection, networking, parallel programming
    CTS common type system
        defines classes, structs, enums, interfaces, delegates,
        access modifiers, inheritance, value/reference types, etc.

.NET Standard - not an implementation
    versioned set of APIs that are implemented by the
        Base Class Library of a .NET implementation
    libraries can compile targetting .NET Standard and
        the same assembly can be used by any .NET implementation
        compatible with that version of .NET Standard.

implementations:
    .NET Framework
        from 2002, original implementation, Windows-only
        last version 4.8 released 2019
        gets updates from Windows Update
        CLR common language runtime (VES)
            a virtual machine that runs intermediate language
            JIT just in time compiler
                gets assembly, compiles to machine code on the fly
            memory management / garbage collection
            exception handling
            thread management
        FCL framework class library (Standard Libraries)
        implements .NET Standard 2.0, but won't go any further than that
    .NET Core
        from 2016, redesigned and architecturally simplified successor to .NET Framework
        open source, cross-platform, better support for DevOps, command-line, container scenarios
        gets updates from manual installs / NuGet
        .NET Framework frameworks were gradually ported to or redesigned for Core
            (like EF Core, EF 6, ASP.NET Core, WinForms, WPF), finished though
        CoreCLR (VES)
            the CLR for Core
            has a JIT as well, RyuJIT
            all the features of the CLR
        CoreFX (Standard Libraries)
    Mono
        from 2004, open source, cross-platform (Unix)
            originally reverse-engineered from .net framework
            but only some frameworks were implemented
        3rd party at first, adopted by microsoft from 2016
        Mono runtime (VES)
        more support for AOT compilation (alternative to JIT), but JIT too
        used by Xamarin for mobile
            runtimes for iOS, Android, Mac
        used by Unity for games
    UWP
        for windows 10/xbox apps
        uses .NET Native AOT compiler & runtime (VES)
        CoreFx (Standard Libraries), same as .NET Core
    older kinda abandoned implementations:
        .NET Compact Framework (Windows Phone)
        Micro Framework (embedded) (new 3rd party successor nanoFramework)
        Portable.NET (hostile 3rd party GNU version)

future plans (late 2020+)
    deprecate .NET Framework (but keep it supported with fixes)
    keep CoreCLR and Mono runtimes, converge them so they
        are more interchangable
    rename .NET Core as .NET
    transition to using nullable reference types in C#
    move Mono/Xamarin to use CoreFx

managed code
    portability (same platform, different architecture)
    memory management
    performance
    inter-operability (platform-independent)

Visual Studio - traditional IDE
    dates back to 1997
    some older frameworks focused more on GUI development scenarios,
        or otherwise tied down to Visual Studio. with .NET Core, much more
        freedom in tools.
    excellent reputation for a free IDE
    supports many languages, not just .NET languages
    written in .NET Framework, Windows-only
    there's a version for Mac in Mono, but it's not as good
Visual Studio Code - new
    from 2015
    Electron app, cross-platform
    usage focus on extensibility, many reliable vendor & third-party extensions
    grown in popularity since launch, now very popular
    more lightweight in some ways
MSBuild - build system
Roslyn - C# compiler (and VB)
    also provides source code analysis, intellisense, etc.
    (older c# compiler is csc.exe, distributed with .net framework)

CoreRT
    CoreRT is an experimental workflow for .NET Core
    an alternative to the Common Language Infrastructure, or at least not much like
        the other implementations, besides maybe UWP.
    with CoreRT, you use different compilers which compile into native code directly,
        rather than with intermediate language in the middle.
    this scenario is often called AOT (ahead of time) as opposed to JIT compilation.
    the CoreRT runtime has pretty much all of the features of the CLR, like garbage collection,
        but where the CLR is a virtual machine that runs CIL, the CoreRT runtime
        is not a virtual machine and just manages the native code that was already compiled.
    so when you compile C# with CoreRT, you choose at that time what architectures you are compiling for,
    and the result of that build can only be used on those systems
    the benefit being you don't need to waste time with JIT at runtime.
    (this workflow's more similar to how traditional languages compile and run, and more unlike usual Java and .NET)

how does .NET Framework manage third-party dependencies?
    on each machine, assemblies go in the GAC, global assembly cache
    strongly named: no two assemblies can have the same name
    nothing ever gets removed from it
    C:\Windows\assembly and C:\Windows\Microsoft.NET\assembly

now instead, .NET Core uses:
    a cross-platform package manager called NuGet, which also downloads those assemblies from
    registries, especially the default one on nuget.org.
    configured with NuGet.Config (for older projects), or PackageReferences in the csproj file.
    doesn't keep around unused assemblies

--

someone mentioned the panelist asked about CLS in .NET. this is one i didn't talk about, and a lot of the material online is pretty vague. it's related to CTS.

the common type system is the set of rules for what it is to be a value type, reference type, all the basic data types like object, int, string, boolean, etc., all the types of types like class, struct, interface, delegate, access modifiers, etc. any .NET language like C#, F#, whatever, they don't have to support all of those features, but if they want to have a "delegate" feature, they had better define them in a CTS-compatible way - since the VES will definitely execute the generated IL code according to the CTS rules.

the common language specification is a subset of the CTS's definitions that code is supposed to limit itself to using if it wants to be cross-language-compatible. so that CLS-compatible code from one language can call CLS-compatible code from another language with full confidence in compatibility. the standard example is, C# supports unsigned ints, but it's not part of the CLS and not all .NET languages support that type, so those languages couldn't call your public methods if you put unsigned int parameters in them.
