SDLC - software development life cycle

Waterfall - works for mission critical systems, IP, security, what doesn't change a lot.
cannot adapt well to change. expensive/slow
    feasibility
    requirements, 6-12 mo
    design, 4-6 mo
    build, 12-18 mo
    (test, 6-9 mo)
    deploy, ~3 mo

Big Bang - works for proof of concept. quick. not sustainable
    requirements
    design, build, test
    deploy

Iterative (& Spiral) - client is involved. quick, short-sighted
spiral is one type of iterative, where each iteration is mini-waterfall.
  > requirement
  | design
  | build, test
  \ deploy

Agile -
    iterative and also incremental. we don't have the entire thing planned in detail when we start.
    emphasize working software over detailed design
    emphasize rapid or daily collaboration between stakeholders devs customers
    CMMI Capability Maturity Model Integration, accountability
        bureaucracy overload, govt contracts
        6 levels? revature on level 3?
    Scrum - simpler, less overhead
        Backlog - list of stories and issues needed for the project.
        Sprint - several weeks planned in advance, with planning beforehand and retrospective/review afterwards. estimate how much effort needed for stories, and choose some from backlog to implement this sprint.
        Story - expected user action on application.
        Issue - expected user defect
        Capacity - amount of productive work hours available in a sprint.
        Velocity - amount of actual points completed in a sprint.
        task
        Planning
        Review
        Standup - daily meeting where you share what you accomplished the previous day, what you will be working on this coming day, and any blockers you have, what you need from other people.
    Kanban
        from Toyota, means signboard
        status-oriented - Backlog, Todo, Doing, Done
            In progress, testing, ready to release, released
        work items/stories/issues move from left to right in a board of statuses.
        limits on how many points can be in a particular state at one time, reevaluated continuously. bottlenecks become easily visible.
        continuously evaluating and adapting, no fixed sprints.

scrum focuses on strict schedule to complete set number of stories, with reflection/evolution considered after each sprint of few weeks
kanban focuses on limiting work-in-progress, with reflection considered continuously
both visualize the status of stories on boards moving from the left to Done on the right
