With SQL, how do you select a column named "FirstName" from a table
What do we call a field that references a field in another table?
Special
logrotate

When defining a table you cannot
ACID stands for
The UNIQUE constraint requires that values must be
In SQL, NULL values
Referential integrity stipulates
The CHECK constraint is used to
What is the difference between WHERE and HAVING
The ON DELETE clause is used to
A foreign key is
Denormalization is
MAX(), SUM(), and COUNT() are examples of
UPPER(), ABS(), CONCAT() are examples of
Insert is a part of this sublanguage
What is required of a primary key?
Which of the following joins will return all records from the first table despite any condition specified?
Use the AS keyword to specify an alias
Which of the following is an aggregate function?
DML statements include commands like CREATE, DROP, and ALTER
Which command is used to remove a table from memory?
DDL Statements include commands like INSERT, UPDATE, and DELETE?
In a one-to-one relationship, you typically use a third table as an association or join table.
Which normalized form introduces the concept of enforcing primary keys and removing composite columns?
Which normalized form supports the mantra "describe the key, the whole key, and nothing but the key"?
A foreign key constraint must point to the primary key of another table
How do you sort the results of a SELECT statement in SQL?
What is the default transaction isolation level in Sql Server?
The SQL keyword(s) ________ is used with wildcards.
Which SQL statement is used to return only different values?
With SQL, how can you return the number of records in the "Persons" table?
Which of the following query finds the total rating of the sailors who have reserved boat "103"?
Which of the following query finds the name of the sailors who have reserved at least two boats
With SQL, how do you select all the records from a table named "Persons" where the "LastName" is alphabetically between (and including) "Hansen" and "Pettersen"?
Which SQL statement lets you find the sales amount for each store?
What are the different events in Triggers?
The SQL statement SELECT SUBSTR('123456789', INSTR('abcabcabc','b'), 4) FROM EMP; prints
Which of the following SQL statements has correct syntax?

A SQLDataReader can be used to insert one or more rows to a database.

In ADO.NET, which of the following object/enum is used to signify the calling of a Stored Procedure?
You will need to call the Open() method prior to calling the ExecuteReader() method with SqlDataReader.
Given the following statements about DataReader objects, which is correct?
If ADO.NET is disconnected architecture, then a data stored in a local DataSet are saved in the actual database when server connection is re-established.
Which class is used to retrieve a connection string from the web.config file?
Which method can you use in order to run an insert statement using SqlCommand object?
Can relationships between database tables be generated by a an application external to database software?
You would store the records that are returned from the SqlDataAdapter in a DataSet

What is the value of the integer numberOfItems after the following code is executed?
What is the output of the following code?
Given the following 2 array of strings. Which LINQ query statement selects all values from both arrays that are longer than 4 characters and in puts them alphabetical order?
